# Micronux

Micronux is a graphical editor for Linux to edit patches from the Alesis Micron synthesiser.  
It is just a front end to edit for the text files generated by Alesis' program decoder/encoder perl script. 

## Work in progress

Micronux is in early days development and doesn't do anything useful right now. For something that actually works on Linux, see the simple (yet smart) perl script by ralphgonz [here](https://sites.google.com/site/ralphgonz/music-micron).

### Method

Micronux is written in **python** and uses the **PySide2** bindings for its **QT** graphical interface, which is built using **QT Designer**. It will use **amidi** to send/receive sysex programs through midi.

The user interface is inspired by the physical layout of the Ion synthesiser as well as existing Mac/Windows editors. Since the amount of controls and settings of the Micron can be overwhelming, the goal is to simplify and promote the more commonly used settings.

Additionally, one goal is to keep Micronux functional on a netbook screen, so for now the window is limited to a size of 1024x600 pixels. The use of tabs and pop-up windows should eventually give access to all the settings.

----

### To do list
*A road-map classified by difficulty/likelihood:*

#### easy

  - finish adding controls to ui.
  - add open/save text file functionality.
  - option to rename patches.

#### medium

  - implement a non-linear slider for the time related settings.
  - seamlessly incorporate *amidi* functions, with possibility to select midi port from a menu.
  - automatically send patch on setting change.

#### hard

  - reimplement the decoder/encoder perl script in python.
  - only send setting changes instead of whole patch (effectively turning the program into a real-time editor)

----

### Motivation

The Micron is (famously) tricky to edit, with only one knob to change all its settings. I spent many hours looking for a graphical patch editor that would work in Linux, without success. But I did come across Alesis' perl script and thought I could write a front end to edit the text file it produces. I decided to learn python and after reading about frameworks, I decided to use Qt. In the meantime I found ralphgonz's perl script which uses Tk to do the same job. Whilst it works great, I still feel it is worthwhile writing a more modern and intuitive interface.

### Reference

https://ion-micron-miniak.fandom.com/wiki/Common_FAQ
